`Symbol`
========


##### `Symbol`<ssub>(생성자)</ssub>
```ts
let sym1 = Symbol();
let sym2 = Symbol("key");
```

##### 특징
- 수정 X
- 유일무이
```ts
let sym2 = Symbol("key");
let sym3 = Symbol("key");

sym2 === sym3; // false
```

##### 프로퍼티 키
```ts
const sym = Symbol();

let obj = {
  [sym]: "value",
};

// "value"
console.log(obj[sym]);
```

##### 계산된 프로퍼티 선언 조합
- 객체 프로퍼티
- 클래스 멤버
```ts
const getClassNameSymbol = Symbol();

class C {
  [getClassNameSymbol]() {
    return "C";
  }
}

let c = new C();

// "C"
let className = c[getClassNameSymbol]();
```

## `unique symbol`

##### 특징
- `symbol` 하위 타입
- 생성
  - `Symbol()`
  - `Symbol.for()`
  - 명시적인 타입 주석
- 할당 허용
  - `const` 선언
  - `readonly static` 프로퍼티
- 특정 `unique symbol` 참조
  - `typeof` <sub>(연산자)</sub> 사용
  - 완전 유일무이한 개체 <sub>(해당 선언)</sub>
- To enable treating symbols as unique literals a special type `unique symbol` is available.
- `unique symbol` is a subtype of `symbol`, and are produced only from calling `Symbol()` or `Symbol.for()`, or from explicit type annotations. This type is only allowed on `const` declarations and `readonly static` properties, and
- in order to reference a specific unique symbol, you’ll have to use the `typeof` operator. Each reference to a unique symbol implies a completely unique identity that’s tied to a given declaration.
```ts
declare const sym1: unique symbol;

// sym2 can only be a constant reference.
// 에러 발생
// - A variable whose type is a 'unique symbol' type must be 'const'.
let sym2: unique symbol = Symbol();

// Works - refers to a unique symbol, but its identity is tied to 'sym1'.
let sym3: typeof sym1 = sym1;

// Also works.
class C {
  static readonly StaticSymbol: unique symbol = Symbol();
}
```

Because each `unique symbol` has a completely separate identity, no two `unique symbol` types are assignable or comparable to each other.
```ts
const sym2 = Symbol();
const sym3 = Symbol();

// 에러 발생
// - This comparison appears to be unintentional because the types 'typeof sym2' and 'typeof sym3' have no overlap.
if (sym2 === sym3) {
  // ...
}
```

## Well-known Symbols
In addition to user-defined symbols, there are well-known built-in symbols. Built-in symbols are used to represent internal language behaviors.

Here is a list of well-known symbols:

#### `Symbol.asyncIterator`
A method that returns async iterator for an object, compatible to be used with for await..of loop.

#### `Symbol.hasInstance`
A method that determines if a constructor object recognizes an object as one of the constructor’s instances. Called by the semantics of the instanceof operator.

#### `Symbol.isConcatSpreadable`
A Boolean value indicating that an object should be flattened to its array elements by Array.prototype.concat.

#### `Symbol.iterator`
A method that returns the default iterator for an object. Called by the semantics of the for-of statement.

#### `Symbol.match`
A regular expression method that matches the regular expression against a string. Called by the `String.prototype.match` method.

#### `Symbol.replace`
A regular expression method that replaces matched substrings of a string. Called by the `String.prototype.replace` method.

#### `Symbol.search`
A regular expression method that returns the index within a string that matches the regular expression. Called by the `String.prototype.search` method.

#### `Symbol.species`
A function valued property that is the constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

#### `Symbol.split`
A regular expression method that splits a string at the indices that match the regular expression. Called by the `String.prototype.split` method.

#### `Symbol.toPrimitive`
A method that converts an object to a corresponding primitive value. Called by the `ToPrimitive` abstract operation.

#### `Symbol.toStringTag`
A String value that is used in the creation of the default string description of an object. Called by the built-in method `Object.prototype.toString`.

#### `Symbol.unscopables`
An Object whose own property names are property names that are excluded from the ‘with’ environment bindings of the associated objects.
