Generics
========

## "Hello World" 제네릭

##### identity function
- 입력 그대로 출력
  - `echo` <sub>(명령어)</sub> 유사

##### 일반 함수
- 구체적인 타입
```ts
function identity(arg: number): number {
  return arg;
}
```
- `any` <sub>(타입)</sub>
  - 제네릭 기능
  - 타입 정보 X
    - ex\) `number` → `any`
```ts
function identity(arg: any): any {
  return arg;
}
```

##### 인수 타입 캡쳐 · 반환 타입에 사용
```ts
function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}
```

##### `Type` <sub>(타입 변수)</sub>
- 인수 타입 캡쳐
  - 함수 내 사용
    - ex\) 반환값 명시
- 인수 · 반환 타입
  - 동일 타입 사용

##### `identity` <sub>(제네릭 함수)</sub>
- 다수 타입 대상 동작
- 타입 정보 유지

#### 제네릭 함수 호출 방법 <sub>(2가지)</sub>

##### 1. 모든 인수 전달
- 명시적인 타입 인수 전달
  - `<…>`
```ts
// let output: string
let output = identity<string>("myString");
```

##### 2. 타입 인수 추론
- 전달한 함수 인수 타입 기반
- 명시적인 타입 매개변수 지정 X
```ts
// let output: string
let output = identity("myString");
```

#### 타입 명시 vs 타입 추론

##### 타입 명시
- 타입 추론 실패 시 필요
  - ex\) 복잡한 코드 등

##### 타입 추론
- 전달 인수 값 기반 타입 추론
  - 짧은 코드
  - 가독성 ↑

## 제네릭 타입 변수

##### 타입 매개변수
- 모든 타입 가능
```ts
function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}
```
- `length` <sub>(프로퍼티)</sub> 접근 시
  - 에러 발생
    - 해당 프로퍼티 보유 보장 X
```ts
function loggingIdentity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {

  // 에러 발생
  // - Property 'length' does not exist on type 'Type'.
  console.log(arg.length);

  return arg;
}
```

##### 타입 배열 대상 동작 <sub>(`length` 프로퍼티 사용 가능)</sub>
- `Type[]`
```ts
function loggingIdentity<Type>(arg: Type[]): Type[] {
  console.log(arg.length);
  return arg;
}
```
- `Array<Type>`
```ts
function loggingIdentity<Type>(arg: Array<Type>): Array<Type> {
  console.log(arg.length);
  return arg;
}
```

##### 타입 매개변수
- 특정 타입 대상 작업 가능
  - 전체 타입 대상 X
  - 유연성 ↑

## Generic Types
Generic Types
In previous sections, we created generic identity functions that worked over a range of types. In this section, we’ll explore the type of the functions themselves and how to create generic interfaces.

The type of generic functions is just like those of non-generic functions, with the type parameters listed first, similarly to function declarations:
```ts
function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}

let myIdentity: <Type>(arg: Type) => Type = identity;
```

We could also have used a different name for the generic type parameter in the type, so long as the number of type variables and how the type variables are used line up.
```ts
function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}

let myIdentity: <Input>(arg: Input) => Input = identity;
```

We can also write the generic type as a call signature of an object literal type:
```ts
function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}

let myIdentity: { <Type>(arg: Type): Type } = identity;
```

Which leads us to writing our first generic interface. Let’s take the object literal from the previous example and move it to an interface:
```ts
interface GenericIdentityFn {
  <Type>(arg: Type): Type;
}

function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}

let myIdentity: GenericIdentityFn = identity;
```

In a similar example, we may want to move the generic parameter to be a parameter of the whole interface. This lets us see what type(s) we’re generic over (e.g. `Dictionary<string>` rather than just `Dictionary`). This makes the type parameter visible to all the other members of the interface.
```ts
interface GenericIdentityFn<Type> {
  (arg: Type): Type;
}

function identity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {
  return arg;
}

let myIdentity: GenericIdentityFn<number> = identity;
```

Notice that our example has changed to be something slightly different. Instead of describing a generic function, we now have a non-generic function signature that is a part of a generic type. When we use `GenericIdentityFn`, we now will also need to specify the corresponding type argument (here: `number`), effectively locking in what the underlying call signature will use. Understanding when to put the type parameter directly on the call signature and when to put it on the interface itself will be helpful in describing what aspects of a type are generic.

In addition to generic interfaces, we can also create generic classes. Note that it is not possible to create generic enums and namespaces.

## Generic Classes
A generic class has a similar shape to a generic interface. Generic classes have a generic type parameter list in angle brackets (`<>`) following the name of the class.
```ts
class GenericNumber<NumType> {
  zeroValue: NumType;
  add: (x: NumType, y: NumType) => NumType;
}

let myGenericNumber = new GenericNumber<number>();
myGenericNumber.zeroValue = 0;
myGenericNumber.add = function (x, y) {
  return x + y;
};
```

This is a pretty literal use of the `GenericNumber` class, but you may have noticed that nothing is restricting it to only use the `number` type. We could have instead used `string` or even more complex objects.
```ts
let stringNumeric = new GenericNumber<string>();
stringNumeric.zeroValue = "";
stringNumeric.add = function (x, y) {
  return x + y;
};

console.log(stringNumeric.add(stringNumeric.zeroValue, "test"));
```

Just as with interface, putting the type parameter on the class itself lets us make sure all of the properties of the class are working with the same type.

As we cover in our section on classes, a class has two sides to its type: the static side and the instance side. Generic classes are only generic over their instance side rather than their static side, so when working with classes, static members can not use the class’s type parameter.

## Generic Constraints
If you remember from an earlier example, you may sometimes want to write a generic function that works on a set of types where you have some knowledge about what capabilities that set of types will have. In our `loggingIdentity` example, we wanted to be able to access the `.length` property of `arg`, but the compiler could not prove that every type had a `.length` property, so it warns us that we can’t make this assumption.
```ts
function loggingIdentity<Type>(arg: Type): Type {

  // Property 'length' does not exist on type 'Type'.
  console.log(arg.length);
  return arg;
}
```
Instead of working with any and all types, we’d like to constrain this function to work with any and all types that also  have the `.length` property. As long as the type has this member, we’ll allow it, but it’s required to have at least this member. To do so, we must list our requirement as a constraint on what `Type` can be.

To do so, we’ll create an interface that describes our constraint. Here, we’ll create an interface that has a single `.length` property and then we’ll use this interface and the `extends` keyword to denote our constraint:
```ts
interface Lengthwise {
  length: number;
}

function loggingIdentity<Type extends Lengthwise>(arg: Type): Type {

  // Now we know it has a .length property, so no more error
  console.log(arg.length);
  return arg;
}
```

Because the generic function is now constrained, it will no longer work over any and all types:
```ts
// Argument of type 'number' is not assignable to parameter of type 'Lengthwise'.
loggingIdentity(3);
```

Instead, we need to pass in values whose type has all the required properties:
```ts
loggingIdentity({ length: 10, value: 3 });
```

## Using Type Parameters in Generic Constraints
You can declare a type parameter that is constrained by another type parameter. For example, here we’d like to get a property from an object given its name. We’d like to ensure that we’re not accidentally grabbing a property that does not exist on the `obj`, so we’ll place a constraint between the two types:
```ts
function getProperty<Type, Key extends keyof Type>(obj: Type, key: Key) {
  return obj[key];
}

let x = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4 };

getProperty(x, "a");

// Argument of type '"m"' is not assignable to parameter of type '"a" | "b" | "c" | "d"'.
getProperty(x, "m");
```

## Using Class Types in Generics
When creating factories in TypeScript using generics, it is necessary to refer to class types by their constructor functions. For example,
```ts
function create<Type>(c: { new (): Type }): Type {
  return new c();
}
```

A more advanced example uses the prototype property to infer and constrain relationships between the constructor function and the instance side of class types.
```ts
class BeeKeeper {
  hasMask: boolean = true;
}

class ZooKeeper {
  nametag: string = "Mikle";
}

class Animal {
  numLegs: number = 4;
}

class Bee extends Animal {
  numLegs = 6;
  keeper: BeeKeeper = new BeeKeeper();
}

class Lion extends Animal {
  keeper: ZooKeeper = new ZooKeeper();
}

function createInstance<A extends Animal>(c: new () => A): A {
  return new c();
}

createInstance(Lion).keeper.nametag;
createInstance(Bee).keeper.hasMask;
```

This pattern is used to power the mixins design pattern.

## Generic Parameter Defaults
By declaring a default for a generic type parameter, you make it optional to specify the corresponding type argument. For example, a function which creates a new `HTMLElement`. Calling the function with no arguments generates a `HTMLDivElement`; calling the function with an element as the first argument generates an element of the argument’s type. You can optionally pass a list of children as well. Previously you would have to define the function as:
```ts
declare function create(): Container<HTMLDivElement, HTMLDivElement[]>;
declare function create<T extends HTMLElement>(element: T): Container<T, T[]>;
declare function create<T extends HTMLElement, U extends HTMLElement>(
  element: T,
  children: U[]
): Container<T, U[]>;
```

With generic parameter defaults we can reduce it to:
```ts
declare function create<T extends HTMLElement = HTMLDivElement, U extends HTMLElement[] = T[]>(
  element?: T,
  children?: U
): Container<T, U>;

// const div: Container<HTMLDivElement, HTMLDivElement[]>
const div = create();

// const p: Container<HTMLParagraphElement, HTMLParagraphElement[]>
const p = create(new HTMLParagraphElement());
```

##### A generic parameter default follows the following rules:
- A type parameter is deemed optional if it has a default.
- Required type parameters must not follow optional type parameters.
- Default types for a type parameter must satisfy the constraint for the type parameter, if it exists.
- When specifying type arguments, you are only required to specify type arguments for the required type parameters. Unspecified type parameters will resolve to their default types.
- If a default type is specified and inference cannot choose a candidate, the default type is inferred.
- A class or interface declaration that merges with an existing class or interface declaration may introduce a default for an existing type parameter.
- A class or interface declaration that merges with an existing class or interface declaration may introduce a new type parameter as long as it specifies a default.
